To be a good contributor for software development, you have to be good developer/engineer. 
And Electronic Arts - EADP is trying to find one of the best programmers. 

You'll get around 2 hours to complete the solution. So, please watch out the clock.
When writing code, please take care of following things:

1. Proper comments in the code and format of the code should be good. 
2. Solution should compile and execute. 
3. Are you using right design pattern?
4. Are data structures being appropriately chosen?
5. Documentation in the comments should tell the reviewer as what you are trying to do with this method, class or specific expression. 


All the above and there are more will help to showcase your engineering / development skills. 

You can choose any programming language like Java, Python etc. 
If sending Java solution, then can zip the Eclipse / Netbeans project also to make our life easier !! 

Following is the problem statement: 

Simulate a banking backend system. Where the user of this system is say the bank teller. 

-- You can simulate all the operations and keep balances in memory or file or anything. 
-- Input will be from command line or file ( which ever you like) 
-- Assume the name will not be case sensitive.

Operations: 

	AddUser
	DeleteUser
	Debit
	Credit
	Transfer 
	List <by name or by balance> 

Sample Input / Output

1. AddUser
	input: AddUser John
	output: John Added

2. DeleteUser
	input: DeleteUser John
	output: John Deleted

3. Debit
	input: Debit John 1000
	output1: John's account debited 1000 successfully !!
	output2: Error: Not sufficient money

4. Credit
	input: Credit John 1000
	output1: John's account Credited 1000 successfully !!
	output2: Error: Balance in any account cannot be > 2 million

5. AddPayee
	input: AddPayee John Kerry 
	output1: Added payee successfully !!
	output2: Error: Kerry is not a valid user.
	output3: Error: John is not a valid user.
	Discription: Adding Kerry as a payee account to John's account.

4. Transfer
	input: Transfer Kerry Dean 1000
	output1: Transfer successful !!
	output2: Error: Dean's Balance cannot be > 2 million
	output2: Error: Kerry's account doesnt have sufficient money
	Discription: When Kerry transfers successfully money to Dean account, using my bank platform.
	As a cool feature, I'll give $1 to the users who have added Kerry as the Payee account. and this can go further like if Kerry is being added 
	by multiple people, then on every transaction which is more then $100 for first 5 transactions. 


4. List
	input: List 
	output: <List in sorting order by name in ascending order>
	
	input 1: List balance
	output1: <List in sorting order by account balance in descending order>
	

Points to think: 

	This system can be used by multiple bank tellers at the same time !! 
